Philadelphia 
Orphan Asylum 
October 4, 1885

Bryson Yates stared at the broken vase on the floor. Emerald shards gleamed in the daylight sun, mocking him like everyone else in the place. His heart hammered as he sunk to his knees. _She is going to kill me,_ he thought. Quickly, he pieced together two shards, begging them to reunite. He could hear Ms. Devins screaming in his mind.

_What’s wrong with you?_

_You can’t do anything right!_

_Why can’t you be like the other boys?_

His pulse quickened as he gathered the shards into a mound of broken glass. The two pieces he put together began glowing and a bright green line flashed where the they joined. Then the flash disappeared.

He studied the shard. _The two pieces were now one_. _No break_. _No line_.

He set the mended piece on the mound and suddenly, the whole mound flashed and when the light disappeared, the vase was whole again. Bryson gaped at the vase and noticed something odd. _His eyes were_ _glowing._ _Or was that the sun?_ He jumped to his feet and stepped back, staring at the vase on the floor.

The door swung open, and Ms. Devins entered and shut the door. “Boy, what on God’s green earth are you doing? Why did you put the vase on the ground? You keep fooling around like that,” she said as she grabbed the vase and put it on the table. “And you’ll break it for sure. Now put that duster away and make sure your bed is made. The Johnsons will be here any minute.”

Bryson continued to inspect the vase. He noticed there was a small chip at the rim, which was not there before.

“You hard of hearing! I said get to your room and make your bed,” she said as she shoved him toward the staircase. “And make sure you look presentable when you come back down. How are we ever going to get anyone to take you little monsters home if you don’t look suitable?”

A loud knock at the front door declared visitors, and Ms. Devins opened the door, flashing a wide smile. “Come in, come in. I hope your trip was not too taxing.”

Bryson noticed the remaining shard on the floor and worried someone would slip on it and fall. Stealthily, he navigated around Ms. Devins to retrieve it.

An attractive young couple stepped in. The gentleman dressed in a dapper three-piece suit and sported a thin, brown mustache. He took off his bowler hat and smiled at Ms. Devins. The woman was an angel incarnate. Her smile glowed with warmth and her eyes shone kindness as she looked down on Bryson.

“What do we have here?” the man said as he watched Bryson scoop the last shard from the floor. “What an industrious young man!”

“Oh, yes,” Ms. Devins said as she glared at Bryson. “He is one of our special young men. We have a lot of them here.”

The man kneeled on one knee so he could look eye to eye with Bryson. A grimace spread across his face temporarily and Bryson could see his hands were red and swollen.

“What is your name?”

“Bryson, sir.” He said as he stared at the man’s hands.

“Bryson,” Ms. Devins said forcefully. “Staring is rude.”

“Oh no,” the man said. “It’s alright. The doctors tell me it is not contagious. They’re calling it arthritis. But I call it my thorn in the flesh.”

Bryson stepped up to the man and cupped the man’s swollen hand with his hands. He couldn’t explain why he did it; just that he felt compelled to. In his mind, red lines swirled into a red picket gate.

“Bryson Edward Yates!” Ms. Devin’s yelled.

Bryson’s hands warmed as the swelling of the man’s hand receded.

“You let go —”

Then everything went black as Bryson slumped to the floor.

An hour later, Bryson awoke on the couch. The man, his wife, and Ms. Devins seemingly waiting for him to join them.

“Son,” the man said. “Are you okay?”

Bryson glanced over to Ms. Devins, and could see her lips were pressed thin, and she was shaking her leg like she always did when she was about to whoop one of the boys, usually him. “I’m a little tired.”

“Why don’t you run up to your room and lay down,” Ms. Devins said. “I’ll check in on you later.”

Bryson knew what that meant. He was in big trouble. As Bryson scurried away, Ms. Devins resumed her well-practiced pitch. “Shall we begin,” she said. “I have selected ten boys that meet your requests —”

“Pardon my interruption,” Mr. Johnson said. “But Ellie and I agree that we would like to take home that young man we met coming in. Bryson, wasn’t it?”

Ms. Devins nodded. She fidgeted with her dress. “Well, he is a good young man, but he is a little older than you requested.”

“He can’t be much, I guess he is eight or nine?”

“Nine. And then there’s his history …”

“History?” Mrs. Johnson asked.

“It’s a sad affair but it must be shared. One never knows what lurks in the hearts of children with these sorts of past.”

“Oh, my,” Mrs. Johnson said.

“His father was a successful businessman in Philadelphia until he speculated on the railroad. Apparently, the new railroad line he invested in was a sham and the hucksters took all the money and disappeared. This devastated the man. Well, several months later his wife announced they were with child, which put him in a deep melancholy. After the boy was born, his father hung himself.”

“How horrible,” Mr. Johnson said. “But none of that is this young man’s doing.”

“No, it isn’t, but the young man isn’t quite right if you ask me. Every time we turn around, he is breaking something or generating strife among the boys. I think you might be better off with another boy.”

“What happened to his mother?” Mr. Johnson asked.

“She was committed to the Asylum for hysteria. We received Bryson as a baby.”

Bryson, who was listening covertly around the corner, slid to the floor as he heard Ms. Devins last words. Though the other kids mocked him daily about his cowardly father and crazy mother, she never had. He never thought she would speak against him like this.

“We thank you for the history on the boy,” Mr. Johnson said as he and his wife exchanged looks. “But I agree with Mrs. Johnson. It’s not the boys fault he lost his parents. And I think we can all agree that he is special. I don’t know how he did it, but my arthritis is gone. I haven’t had this kind of relief for several years.” He said as he flexed his wrist and fingers. “That boy is headed for greatness, and I aim to help him get there. After we return from our trip to New York, we will come by to collect him.”

_Did he hear him right? Did he really say they were going to take him?_ Bryson replayed the words in his mind … We will come by to collect him … His heart raced in his chest and his innards seemed to flutter. He wanted to run around the house, whoop, and holler, but he knew that would be the worst thing he could do.

The week dragged by for Bryson. He kept thinking about the kind man and his beautiful wife, and the fact that he was going to have a family; something he had never really experienced but had always desperately wanted. He would have someone who would read stories to him, to tell him how things worked in the world, and to decorate a Christmas tree. He might even get to eat turkey on Thanksgiving Day. Things he had dreamed about since he was old enough to know.

After the week had come and gone, Bryson began to worry. Then, another week passed and still no visit from the Johnsons. Finally, Bryson drummed up the courage to approach Ms. Devins.

“Ma’am,” he said gingerly. She appeared to be reading her Bible, which sometimes put her in a foul spirit. “Do you know when the Johnsons will be back?”

Ms. Devins shut her Bible and slowly looked at Bryson.

He could see the pity in her eyes. Something he rarely saw. Something that scared him.

“They won’t be back.”

“Why?” Bryson whispered. His chest pounded like before, but a heaviness filled him as he waited for her answer.

“Because you are cursed, my boy.”

Bryson stared at her, tears welling up in his eyes.

“They were in a train wreck on their way to New York and died.”