It was a gloomy overcast morning as I waited for Atterley in front of my home on 39th Street. Dark clouds billowed overhead, reminiscent of the plumes of smoke from the textile factories that saturated the city. Across the street, orphans played marbles, with fights erupting after every shot, until the unmistakeable rattle of Atterley’s Model B announced his arrival.
I climbed into the horseless carriage, setting my doctor’s bag in my lap. Atterley insisted we take it to Byberry farm, northeast of Philadelphia, and though I hated the contraption and its tendency to break down, I could not argue against its speed compared to my horse and buggy.
Byberry was an unpleasant place on its best days, teeming with insane patients. Yet, I had a soft spot for it given my personal history so we visited several times a week to attend to those most in need. 
“Morning, Pip," Atterley called out over the engine noise. "Are you going to the surgical theater tonight?” 
I always admired many things about Atterley, his wicked sense of humor being one. He affectionately called me Pip, a nod to my fondness for Dickens and my past as an orphan. I had often told him of Mary's disposition and he frequently quipped that she sounded like someone who would have loved to raise him *by hand*. So, he started calling me Pip. He never meant it as mockery, but as a term of endearment, and acknowledgement of my challenging situation.
The car backfired, and I caught the scent of burned rubber. This was how it always started, and braced myself I for the inevitable boredom I had while Atterley tinkered with his automobile. Nevertheless, these "unscheduled picnics," as Atterley called them, never dampened his enthusiasm for the machine. “No,” I yelled back. “I am meeting Katerina tonight.”
“Is she the one who was fawning over you at the Nickelodeon?” he asked.
I blushed. “I think she had a bit too much to drink.”
“Ahhh, Pip. For someone adept at diagnosing patients, you’re blind and deaf to the signs of love,” Atterley teased.
After another backfire, a wisp of black smoke rose from the front panels of the car. Atterley laughed melodiously, his leather driving goggles giving him the look of a giant fly, which made me burst into laughter.
“Why do you bother with this modern disaster?” I asked.
“What did you say?”
I raised my voice. “Why do you bother with this modern contrivance?”
Atterley nodded. “Precisely the point,” he said as he stopped the car. “How else will we usher in the modern world? I fancy to say, one day, everyone will have one, and the streets will be free from the tyranny of horseshoes.”
“I wouldn't mind less horse dung on the street,” I mused as I climbed out of the car and headed towards the building where Elizabeth Winslow stayed. The smell inside her building assaulted my senses, and the double doors muted the moans and wails of its occupants. I always dreaded entering, but I reminded myself of Byberry's necessity, despite sometimes questioning if death might be a less terrible fate than the suffering within.
After signing the registrar to document my visit, I placed my hand on the door and paused to gather my courage. I bowed my head and whispered my personal creed:

For love, not lucre,
In gentleness without revile, 
May I have the touch of Chiron, 
And the kindness of Christ, 
To ease their suffering 
For at least a little while.

The dimly lit room reeked of urine and blood. I suppressed a gag as I scanned the matrix of beds. There were ten rows and ten columns of metallic beds; two more columns than was present at my last visit. I remembered I had recently read in the Public Ledger that administrators were keen on moving more and more public patients to Byberry, which I equated to standard fare sensationalism, knowing how newsies played with the truth. But alas, it appeared they were right and Byberry would continue to grow at a malignant rate.
The administrator, Mr. Connor Blackburn, sat upon his perch midway against the wall. His appearance was boorish, with dark, greasy hair and an incongruous Amish beard. I had noticed in my many visits that he rarely looked up from his paper, despite his role to ensure timely patient care. His lack of empathy and the shortage of nurses meant neglect was expected, leading me to send an assistant on my off days to check on my patients.
As I passed him, Blackburn stood, straightening his waistcoat, and grabbed my arm, wheeling me around. “It’s time to pay the graft,” he said in a thick Irish brogue. His eyes narrowed and a sardonic smile spread across his face, revealing his friable, bleeding gums. His smile quickly faded when he saw me studying his countenance and he jerked my arm with vitriolic hate.
In spite of my predicament, my curiosity took possession and I scanned his appearance for other stigmata of disease. There were multiple bruises on his hands, and he seemed to favor his left side, protecting an ailing right knee? The coup de gráce was his jaundiced sclera which brought me to the conclusion that he suffered from Scurvy as a result of his Alcoholism. “My dear sir,” I said. “Though you are not well, I can tell you how you can be restored!”
As if I’d shared a grand joke, the administrator threw his head back and cackled. “Aren’t you a gas,” he said as he tried to stifle his laughter. “Ye be the one who should worry about his health. Yer patient is late with the rent. Y’think we give away beds without payin'?” His face colored crimson as he suppressed a cough. “Y’must think I'm an eejit,” he snarled. His face darkened as he coughed a phlegmatic cough, and spit on the floor at my feet.
I was about to reprimand my assailant for his crudeness and unsanitary habits when rough hands peeled the administrator from me and gently pushed me aside. I looked up and saw Atterley wedging in between us. “Go see your patient, Dr. Yates. I'll handle this.”
I stumbled over to Miss Winslow, peeking back to see Atterley and Blackburn in a heated exchange. 
“Dr. Yates?” Elizabeth called out.
Should I turn back and help Atterley? I wondered. ... [metaphor here that helps imagine the interaction between Atterley and Blackburn]. I decided to rush back and help my friend when suddenly the administrator calmed. He seemed satisfied by something Atterley had said. And just as I started to turn back to my patient, the administrator glanced up and stared coldly into my eyes; goose flesh cropped up on the back of my neck as I forced my gaze back to my patient.
Miss Elizabeth Winslow was a 20-year-old mongoloid woman, born of Lady Winslow, a High Society acolyte, and cousin to John Weaver, the Mayor of Philadelphia. Lady Winslow was in her late 30’s when she delivered Elizabeth. The family was initially flush with joy that they had been blessed with the girl they had always wanted, but in time it became apparent that all was not as it should be. I first met Elizabeth when I was called to the Winslow Manor for a temperamental outbursts during a social event. This happened on multiple occasions. The repetitive embarrassment, and the family’s lack of control over their teenage daughter, led to her eventual institutionalization at the ripe age of sixteen. My heart bore a great weight the day I accompanied her to Byberry, though I held no ill feelings for the family for I was not sure what I would do if I were in their stead.
“Good morning, Miss Winslow,” I greeted, clasping her hand. “How is my favorite patient today?”
She flashed her easy smile and giggled. “You always say that.”
As I looked at her I had to admit I found it difficult to picture her as an emotionally labile person. Despite her surroundings, she always seemed good-natured and pleasant, something I’m quite certain was not fabricated. “That’s because it’s true, ” I said as I smiled warmly at her. I looked at her wrists to see if the staff had put any restraints on her recently as I had noticed on another patient. There were no marks or bruises. “Are you being nice to the staff?”
“I helped Emily bake a cake yesterday.”
“Really? What kind of cake?”
“One with flour and sugar.” She said and then giggled again.
"Clever girl," I said as I pulled out my stethoscope and held it up. “Let’s take a listen, shall we?”
She grabbed the earpiece portion and deftly placed them into her ears while I placed the cup over my heart.
“I hear it, Doctor Yates,” she said as she smiled. The look on her face was filled with wonder like that of a little child on Christmas morning, and it amazed me that she still found this fascinating despite it becoming our ritual on each visit.
Hours later, I met Atterley at the Model A. We were well on our way back to town when he raised his objection.
“You would do well to treat the Administrator as a man of station.”
I startled at the bluntness of the statement. Atterley was a man who liked to posit questions as propositions for discussion and debate. He rarely made declarations as he had about the administrator. “How was I to know that the Winslow’s had failed to meet his requirement? Though,” I added with scorn in my voice; “I hardly see bribery as a requirement for the care of their daughter.”
Later, back in the Model B with Atterley, we discussed the necessity of placating Blackburn for Elizabeth's sake. Atterley warned me of my stubbornness, expressing concern for my wellbeing and Elizabeth's care. Despite our disagreement, I saw the compassion in his eyes, a familiar sight from his patient care. Resolute, I knew I had to discuss the situation with the Winslows and uphold my principles, no matter the challenge ahead.
Atterley turned his head and pumped the brakes to bring the car to a standstill. “This is no trifling matter, my friend. You need to placate this man for your patient’s health and for your own livelihood. He is connected to powerful men, and any sense of self-righteousness will only get you into deeper trouble.”
“Self-righteousness?” I said and then whistled in disbelief. Atterley saw himself as a seasoned man of the world and often chided me for his stringent ethics, but what he failed to understand is that I had been seasoned plenty in the Orphan Asylum. “I won’t bend out of convenience. Nor will I cower to bullies.”
Atterley shook his head. “He told me if the graft is not paid; he will discharge Elizabeth. She will not have a place at Byberry.”
“Then I’ll need to discuss this with the Winslow’s to determine their wishes.”
At that moment, Atterley looked at me with an expression of compassion; one I had seen a hundred times before when I watched him care for his patients. 
"Pip, Pip, Pip," he murmured as he slowly put the car back into gear. “One day your stubbornness will get the best of you. I just hope I’m there to help you out.”