There are moments in time when reality shifts as the moon to the rising sun, and it was in such a moment that I had an epiphany about my time at the asylum. The day had come when I was to be released from Ms. Devin’s charge, and in an instant all the emotional exhaustion from the endless taunting and abuse I had experienced since the first day of remembrance transformed into a profound anxiety for the future. I realized that in light of all the challenges I had endured I had overlooked the generosity that I had received in the form of sup and slumber. As I faced the prospect of losing both in an instant, the absence of these provisions loomed large on the horizon.
I will spare you the many details of my life between my time at the asylum and graduation from University except to say that in my moment of greatest fear, a most unlikely Patron emerged to set me on a path I would have never imagined. A tall, wizened man with muddy brown eyes and a salt and pepper beard stood at the entrance of the asylum the day Ms. Devin's walked me out. He looked like he had just come from a funeral as he wore a black suit with a top hat and wore a sour expression on his face. 
As he nodded to Ms. Devins, he leaned down and held out his hand. "Good morning, Mr. Yates. My name is Archibald Montague." The face was not friendly, which gave me reason to wonder if this would be a welcomed introduction or another sad allotment in my life. He seemed to look from side to side as if he were expecting someone to jump from the bushes to attack him.
Hesitantly, I shook his hand.
"Let's be about our business," he said as he opened the door to his carriage and looked in as an invitation. "Shall we?"
Despite the voice in my head warning me that this was some sort of trap, I decided going with him was better than sleeping on the streets of Philadelphia, which was where most kids ended up who left the asylum.
The carriage lurched when we pulled away from the asylum while I began to assess my situation. The carriage reflected wealth as it was made of handsome wood and was accented with fine leather. Montague sat across from me like a cemetery statue, rigid in posture with his gaze focused straight forward. What a queer man, I thought. His inanimate characteristics were embellished when various bumps in the road had little effect on him while I bounced around like a human ball. 
"Sir," I said.
Montague's gaze drifted down towards me. 
"Where are we going?"
"Quite right," he said. "We'll be there shortly and then we'll make everything known." He attempted a warm smile, but it came across as mechanical, then his eyes lifted to their previous spot and he stared at the carriage wall behind me.
Knowing any further attempts to illuminate my position would be deflected as before, I transferred my attention to the world outside the carriage. The view slowly changed from the winding country road of the asylum to the city streets of Philadelphia. The smell of horses and their refuse filled the air, causing me to gag and cough, while Montague sat unaffected. Eventually, the carriage turned onto a cobbled street where two men gazed upon a shattered hope, a once-majestic horse now sprawled lifelessly in the street. Before long, we stopped in front of a row of homes. They looked moderately new and, surprisingly, were not part of the slums where I expected to be taken. 
"Shall we?" Montague as he climbed out of the carriage. 
I followed, trying to catch up to him, but he was already knocking on a dilapidated door. 
"Pardon me," a gruff voice said to my left.
A large man with a bristly mustache cantered past me, carrying a heavy block of ice. Three doors down from Montague opened and he disappeared into the home. 
"Come, Mr. Yates," Montague called out. "We have introductions to make."
Have you ever been in a situation where you didn't know anyone around you but everyone seemed to know you? This was the situation I was in, and for an orphan of eighteen I was incredibly uncomfortable. In fact, I would often remember this experience when my patient's would become disoriented in the hospital to ensure my empathy and kindness helped relieve their uneasiness.
"I would like to introduce you to Mr. Tom Ballard, and his wife, Mary Ballard," Montague said as he pointed to a middle aged couple standing at the door. "They will be your new custodians."
Mr. Ballard stepped forward and put his hand on my shoulder. "Welcome to your home, lad." He said with a hint of Scottish accent to his voice. "We've been --"
A soprano pitched cough interrupted Mr. Ballard as Mrs. Ballard stared intensely at the back of her husband's head. She wanted conference with him but did not want to seem to have broken decorum. Quickly, her eyes landed on me, and the stare was as cold as any night I have experienced in Philadelphia in all my life. Then she nodded to Mr. Montague, who without a word, ushered me into the library. 
The room smelled of leather, paper, and a hint of tobacco, while the bookshelves sagged from their burden with a pile of books spewed at the base on the floor. I wandered over to the roll top desk against the wood paneled wall that was inundated with papers and parchments.
As I perused the contents on the desk, I could hear Mrs. Ballard whispering in harsh tones her concerns and even objections to having such a street rat in her home. No, I never heard her say such things, but the tone told me all I needed to know about how she felt at my presence. 
Then a leather bound book called out to me from under a stack of papers. I know this sounds supernatural, and at the time, I had no explanation for such a feeling, but when I retrieved it — it felt right in my grip. 
I flipped through the time-worn pages where strange symbols and unfamiliar words concealed most of the books meaning until I stumbled onto an entry plainly written, penned with apparent urgency.

	September 17, 1890
	1924 Franklin Ave.
	Lapis Astralis
	They are watching us.

The entry spoke of hidden truths and forbidden knowledge, of a legacy entwined with the very fabric of history. These eleven words summoned me as on a journey, one that would unravel the mysteries of the past and perhaps, forge a new destiny.
I knew in that moment that I was not merely a visitor in the Ballard's home but a chosen successor to a quest that began long before my time. As the whispers of the past grew louder, I vowed to delve deeper into the secrets that the book held, for I sensed that within its pages lay the key to unlocking my true purpose.