Call me Cain. Like that wretch who killed his brother and bore the inexplicable mark of God's protection and punishment: I, too, carry a similar burden that drags me down as if there was a millstone about my neck. And unbeknownst to those around me, it is ever present, haunting my thoughts like a fiend from the pit of hell. 
The nexus of my life unfolded on October 4th, 1885 while I was an orphan in the Philadelphia Orphan Asylum. It was an unusual Sunday for rather than being herded to Chapel to hear of the wrath of God against sinners like us, we were goaded into preparation for a special visit from a young couple. The superintendent, Mrs. Rachel Devin, a severe woman who believed every word of the Bible and often quoted it chapter and verse, waited on the porch while I dusted the the vase in the entry way. 
"There he is," a rough voice snapped behind me. The voice belonged to my greatest agitation, Billy Norton. 
I turned to face him and his three brigands. Their faces contorted with devious smiles that exuded both joy and hate. I scanned the room for an exit, but I was trapped between the front door and the Gang of Four, as we called them. I contemplated stepping outside where Ms. Devin waited, but the last time I did so, the gang made me pay later in the night. And in the end, Ms. Devin blamed me for instigating the conflict as she so often did. 
"Look here, fellas. The little pansy is doing women's work to impress the do gooders." He stepped closer with his walking stick that he carried when Ms. Devin wasn't watching. As he approached, I pulled back, anticipating a blow to the head, but instead he poked me sharply in the chest
"You think they will want to take you home with them?" The other boys edged around him, creating an impenetrable line. "You gonna cry like a little pansy when they don't pick you?" As if on cue, his sidekicks started wailing like babies, mocking me as they did every day I lived at the asylum. 
The iniquity in my heart, that Ms. Devins often referenced, boiled deep inside me, and radiated its heat to my face like the glow of a gaslight on a cold, winter evening. As Billy made to poke me again, I swatted the stick away, knowing he wouldn't lay hands on me right before a visit, but much to my horror the stick struck the vase, knocking it to the floor. 
The sound of the vase shattering into a thousand pieces, crushed my soul because I knew Ms. Devin would blame me. The gang ran from the entry way, up the stairs, laughing as they did so, for they knew how precious that vase was to Ms. Devin, and how doomed I was as a result.
My pulse quickened as I slid to my knees and stared at the emerald shards that gleamed in the daylight sun. They seemed to mock me like the boys and I prayed to God that He would restore the vase and spare my life. 
I gathered the shards carefully into a mound of broken glass. Then, I selected two large pieces and placed them together, begging them to reunite. I could hear Ms. Devin's voice in my head, "What is wrong with you boy? Why can't you do anything right?”
Then, the two pieces began glowing and a bright green light flashed where they were aligned, and somehow, a miracle no less, they were no longer two but one. I studied the mended piece, trying to puzzle out how it happened, and then dropped it on the remaining pile when suddenly the whole mound began glowing with another bright green flash of light. Just as the flash dissipated, the front door swung open and Ms. Devin entered. 
"What in Heaven's name are you doing boy?"
My heart sank as she pointed to the floor where I expected to see a pile of refuse. Instead, by the grace of God, there stood the vase restored. 
"Why have you placed my vase on the floor where it can be easily broken?" She barked as she grabbed it and set it on the table. Then she smacked me on the back side of my head and said, "get upstairs and make sure your bed is tidy. The Johnsons will be here any moment."
Though the blow smarted, I couldn't help but notice a small chip in the vase’s edge, which was new. This blemish would not escape her keen eyes for long and I wondered how I could mend the imperfection as before.
"Are you hard of hearing!" Ms. Devin shouted. "I said get to your room.” She grimaced as she shoved me toward the staircase, and said, ”And make yourself presentable, not that you have any hope of leaving this place."
A loud knock at the door declared the Johnsons had arrived. Ms. Devin’s grimace transformed into a broad smile as she opened the front door. "Come in, come in. I hope your trip was not too troublesome."
The Johnson's exuded grace and beauty as they stepped into the hall. The gentleman dressed in a dapper three-piece suit, sporting a thin, brown mustache. He took off his bowler hat and smiled at Ms. Devins. The woman seemed to me to be an angel incarnate. Her smile glowed with warmth and her eyes shone kindness as she looked down on me.
“What do we have here?” Mr. Johnson said as he watched me collect the last shard from the floor under the table. “What an industrious young man!”
“Oh, yes,” Ms. Devins said as she glared at me. “He is one of our special boys. We have a lot of them here.”
The man kneeled on one knee so he could look me in the eye, which brought a wince to his face. The knuckles of his hands were red and swollen like small ripened tomatoes plucked from the summer garden.
“What's your name, son?”
“Bryson, sir,” I said as I stared at his angry hands.
“Bryson,” Ms. Devins growled.
“Oh no,” Mr. Johnson said as he followed her eyes to his hands. “It’s alright. The doctors tell me it's not contagious. They call it arthritis. But I call it a thorn in the flesh."
Without explanation and under heavy compulsion, I stepped up and cupped his swollen right hand in mine. This was not in my nature to be so bold, but something stirred deep within me, and the compassion in my heart urged me to act. 
Mr. Johnson jolted at my grasp, and my mind flooded with red lines that swirled into the semblance of a bloody picket fence. I heard Ms. Devins yelling in the distance, but it was muffled by a high pitched ringing in my ears.
Then my hands warmed as if I had stuck them in a wood burning stove, which caused me to release Mr. Johnson's hand. 
"The sw-sw-swelling," Mr. Johnson stuttered. 
As I stared at the confused expression on his face, I sunk to the floor, and everything went black.
Some time later, I woke on the couch. The Johnsons, and Ms. Devins were seemingly waiting for me to awaken. The Johnson's looked concerned and grieved, and I wondered if I had caused him greater harm.
"Son," he said. "Are you okay?"
I glanced over to Ms. Devins, her lips pressed thin, shaking her leg like she always did when about to beat one of us, usually me. "I’m a little tired," I said. My head ached and the room spun as I sat upright.
"Why don’t you run up to your room and lay down," Ms. Devins said. "I’ll check in on you later."
Of course, I knew what that meant: I was in big trouble. So I gently stood, trying to maintain my balance. As I shuffled out of the room, Ms. Devins resumed her well-practiced pitch. "Shall we begin," she said. "I have selected ten boys that meet your requests —"
"Pardon my interruption," Mr. Johnson said. "But Ellie and I would like to take home that young man. Bryson, wasn’t it?"
Ms. Devins nodded, fidgeting with her dress. "Well, he is a good boy, but he is a little older than you requested."
"He can’t be much, I guess he is eight or nine?"
"Nine. And then there’s his history …"
"Oh?" Mrs. Johnson said.
"It’s a sad affair but it must be shared. I make it a point to give no false testimony. One never knows what lurks in the hearts of children with these sorts of past."
"Oh, my."
"His father was a successful businessman in Philadelphia until he speculated on the railroad. Apparently, the new line he invested in was a sham and the hucksters took all the money and disappeared. This devastated the man. Well, several months later his wife announced they were with child, which put him in a deep melancholy. After the boy was born, his father hung himself."
"How horrible," Mrs. Johnson said. "But none of that is this young man’s doing."
"No, it isn’t, but he isn’t quite right if you ask me. Every time I turn around, he is breaking something or generating strife among the boys. I think you might be better off with another boy."
"What happened to his mother?" Mr. Johnson asked.
"She was committed to the Asylum for hysteria. We received Bryson as a baby."
Listening from around the corner, I slid to the floor at Ms. Devins' last words. ==Though the other kids mocked me daily about my cowardly father and crazy mother, she never had. I never thought she would speak against me like this.
[Add ... although she was strict and mean spirited, she was always fair ... distributing her meanness across the board ]
"We thank you for the history on the boy," Mr. Johnson said as he and his wife exchanged looks. "But I agree with Mrs. Johnson. It’s not the boys fault he lost his parents. And I think we can all agree that he is special. I don’t know how he did it, but my arthritis is gone. I haven’t had this kind of relief in years." He said as he flexed his wrist and fingers of his right hand. "That boy is headed for greatness, and I aim to help him get there. After we return from our trip to New York, we will come by to collect him."
Did I hear him right? Are they really going to take me? 
I replayed the words in my mind. 
We will come by to collect him … 
My heart raced, and my innards fluttered. I wanted to run around the house, whoop, and holler, but I had done this once before and knew that it would be the worst thing I could do.
The week dragged by for me. I kept thinking about the kind man and his beautiful wife, and that I was going to have a family; something I had never experienced but had always desperately wanted. I would have someone to read stories to me, tell me how things worked in the world, and decorate a Christmas tree. I might even get to eat turkey on Thanksgiving Day. Things I had dreamed about since I was old enough to know.
After the week came and went, I began to worry. Another week passed and still no visit from the Johnsons. Finally, I drummed up the courage to approach Ms. Devins.
“Ma’am,” I said gingerly. She appeared to be reading her Bible, which sometimes put her in a foul spirit. “Do you know when the Johnsons will be back?”
Ms. Devins shut her Bible and slowly looked at me. She had pity in her eyes. Something I rarely saw. This fact, fully digested, flooded me with fear and anxiety.
“They won’t be back.”
“Why?” I whispered. My chest pounded like before, but a heaviness filled me as I waited for her answer.
“Because you are cursed, my boy.”
I stared at her with tears welling up in my eyes.
“They were in a train wreck on their way to New York and died.”