My days at Stephen Girard College were like a swift, refreshing breeze, passing by with a sense of freedom and discovery. In stark contrast, medical school at the University of Pennsylvania felt like an unrelenting, thunder storm. There, each moment weighed heavily upon me, grinding me down slowly under the intense pressure of becoming a physician. While college was a time of exploration and light-hearted learning, medical school was a relentless test of endurance and dedication, each day stretching longer than the last in the rigorous journey of a physician in training. The anticipated respite at the conclusion of my training remained elusive. Each time I believed I had reached the summit, ready to savor the satisfaction of my achievements, I was met instead with the disheartening realization that another, higher peak loomed ahead, perpetually obstructing the view I so longed to see.
Eventually, I graduated and stepped into the professional world of medicine, anxious to prove my merit, and naively unaware of the forces stacked against me.
On a cool Thursday morning in May of 1904, the sun glimmered as I walked over to the Pennsylvania Hospital medical library. The streets of Philadelphia bustled with activity with the clippity-clop of horse hooves and the squeak of carriage wheels echoing down alleyways. Many walked to the textile factories that dotted the city landscape, while street vendors cried out, selling everything from fresh fruit to newspapers. Despite my love for the city's pulse, it was the library, the most sacred place in Philadelphia, that quickened my spirit.
“Morning,” I whispered to one of my closest colleagues, Dr. James Atterely, as I entered the room. Atterley was the only black man I had ever met, and remarkably, he was a physician who trained in Europe. Many of my peers looked down on me for my willingness to associate with him, but as an  orphan, I was impervious to their pretentious glares. I slid into one of the mahogany chairs, nodding to Dr. Packard, who sat across the table. Packard was considered by all to be the High Priest of the library.
“There’s an interesting case on Chloral Poisoning in a Lunatic Asylum,” Atterley said as he handed me the latest publication of _The Lancet_.
“Did the New England Journal arrive yet?” I asked.
He shook his head.
As I turned the pages of _The Lancet_, a spark of excitement radiated up my fingers as they touched the page. The smells, the texture of the paper, the thrill of learning - few understood the power of this ritual more than Atterley. In fact, many days we would deliberate for hours over what each read in the library, often as we rode out to Byberry Farm to visit our patients.
I was so engrossed that I barely noticed the door of the library open. It was Dr. Samuel Watkins, the supervisor of the clinical staff and Director of the Health Department, who entered. His reddish-brown hair, barbarous sideburns, and beady dark eyes always reminded me of the ferret Ms. Devin carried around. She loved that wiry vermin, but it bit every orphan in the house at one point or another. You always had to keep the little monster in sight, which was also true of Watkins.
Watkins cleared his throat as he stood over Atterley. “I need you to check on a patient on South Street with neck pain,” he said, handing Atterley a paper with an address.
Atterley looked at the paper, nodded, and placed it in his vest pocket, then returned his gaze to the article he was reading. 
Watkins cleared his throat again.
Atterley met his eyes, raising his eyebrows.
“It’s an urgent matter.”
I gazed into Atterley's eyes, seeing a storm of disappointment clouding them. A silent understanding passed between us. His hunger for medical knowledge burned like a relentless inferno, where each new insight, like gold refined, emerged purer and more resplendent, sparkling amidst the ashes of uncertainty. Nevertheless, the time to forge such wisdom was almost as precious as the revelations themselves.
Atterley's brow furrowed, and his eyes narrowed. The air grew tense, thick with suspicion that this was another twisted game by Watkins. The weight of uncertainty and the desire to protect Atterley's quest for knowledge hung heavily between us.
"You'll need help. Take Yates with you," Watkins added.
"Two physicians to evaluate neck pain?" I questioned.
Watkins grinned. "Based on what they told me, I believe it's warranted. Besides, this could be an interesting case for you to demonstrate your talents to the faculty appointment committee."
A moment of hesitation elapsed as I traced the journal's cover. Finally, I closed it, the sound echoing in the room. Pulling back my chair, I knew that refusing Watkins could ruin my dreams of a faculty appointment – and my burning desire to become a surgeon.

We walked along Market Street towards the row house on the address.
"This is utter nonsense," I scoffed.
"If it wasn't neck pain, it would have been something else," Atterley replied.
"He does this every week. I'm starting to think he's doing this on purpose."
As we walked, surrounded by a mosaic of horse-drawn carriages and automobiles, Atterley shook his head and chuckled softly.
"Do you remember when we first met?" I asked. "I was so determined to prove myself."
"Yes, you've always been ambitious," Atterley smiled.
"I always wanted to prove my benefactor hadn't made a mistake," I continued.
"But he's gone," Atterley said. "He'll never know."
"But everyone else will. I don't want anyone to say that Mr. Johnson's investment in my education, and ultimately my profession, was a waste."
"Is that why you get so defensive when someone slights you?"
"Are you saying it doesn't bother you?" I replied. "He always picks us – never any of the other doctors. It's always the black man and the orphan. Is it too much to ask for the respect we deserve?"
Atterley stopped, turning to me. "Come on, now. He will never give us that. And we shouldn't expect it. We both know why he picks us, and why the others don't step in. It's clear as day. But let's not play the victim; the day we do is the day we give him power over us."
His words pulled me back from my anger. Atterley's professionalism and wisdom shone through.

"All I have ever wanted is to be one of the best. To help as many people as I can. But sometimes, it feels like I'll never escape the orphanage as long as Watkins is in charge. He pushes us around like they did back at the orphanage on Cherry Hill."
Atterley smiled. "So you think by acting like a child, they'll treat you like an adult?"
"Et tu, Brute?" I said, hand over heart. "I know I can be emotional, but you ..." My words trailed off at the pained look on Atterley's face. "That's a compliment, really. I admire your stoicism." I patted him on the back. "My friend, you inspire me to be better."
We continued walking, our destination now only a few houses away, nestled among the brick buildings of Philadelphia.
"Why do you need Watkins to be the best?" Atterley asked.
"For the faculty appointment," I admitted.
"You don't need an appointment to be the best – clinician, teacher, or researcher."
"But it makes it easier," I confessed.
Atterley stopped in front of a door that was slightly open. “Now we’re getting to the matter,” he said. “You want it to be easy.”
I blushed, and Atterley put his arm on my shoulder. “There’s no shame in being tired of the hard way. Lord knows, you’ve had to do it your whole life. But as a black man, I've learned you have to be who you are, not who someone else says you are. That’s all you can do. Live out your purpose. If you do that, it won't matter what they throw at you.”
The door creaked open with a gust of wind, sending a chill down my spine. I squinted to see a silhouette swaying behind the door. “Is that a ghost?” I asked.
“In a manner of speaking,” Atterley said, pushing the door open to reveal a man hanging from a rope in the hallway. “I don’t think there will be much we can do for his neck pain,” he quipped.
“That bastard,” I snapped. “Watkins knew he was dead, and he still sent us here —”
“We’re here now. Let’s see what we can learn from this patient,” Atterley said, stepping into the hallway with a white handkerchief to his nose and mouth.
I followed, the smell of poverty penetrating my handkerchief – stool, urine, mildew. The mildew came from the fungus in the walls, the other smells from the corpse that slowly twisted in the air.
Atterley tried to flex the man’s knee, but the body resisted and began swinging. “Rigor mortis.”
“At least 8 hours ago,” I said nasally.
“And up to a day,” Atterley agreed. “Wonder who notified Watkins?”
I stepped closer to the body, noting an Italian man with a prominent mustache and a scar along his jawline. “There’s a note,” I said, unpinned it. “Do you know Italian?”
“A little,” Atterley replied.
“Si presento lo mano nero.”
“I’d guess it's something to do with the Black Hand,” Atterley said.
I smirked. “The Black Hand stamped on the paper gave that away. We should fetch Tom. He’ll want to see this.”

Several hours later, Atterley and I stood outside the library, which was now closed. Inspector Tom Ballard, my brother-in-law, had taken time to get to the scene and was indeed interested.
“Looks like they’ve shut it down for the day,” Atterley noted, trying the locked door.
“Don’t look now —” I murmured.
“Which one of you idiots called the police?” Watkins stormed towards us. “I told you to collect —”
Atterley cleared his throat, and Watkins’s face transformed, veins engorging, complexion reddening. “Actually,” Atterley drew out. “You told us the patient had neck pain.”
I could feel the heat stirring inside me. I sensed that Watkins was about to have a seizure, and if I didn't control my own boiling cauldron, I would blow not only my chances but likely Atterley's at a faculty appointment.
"It was me," Atterley admitted.
"I figured it would be mousy Yates calling on his brother-in-law," Watkins said as he glared at us. "You," he spat the words at Atterley, "are lucky to be here. Why they ever let a colored mix in with —"
I rushed at Watkins, but Atterley stepped in front of me, stopping me. He whispered in my ear, "Remember what we talked about, eh?"
"You have something you want to say, Yates?" Watkins asked in his high-pitched voice, his hard expression softening into his familiar, condescending smile.
I relaxed and stepped away from Atterley.
Atterley turned to Watkins and said, "If there are consequences —"
"Your faculty appointment is no longer under consideration. You," Watkins growled as he poked Atterley in the chest, "are no longer welcome to use the library or partake in any of the other benefits our physicians enjoy."
I stiffened as the words pierced me. No more meetings in the library. Or spirited discussions over the quality of the studies we read.
"Go practice at the colored hospital where you belong."