
Act 1

The Imperfect Situation: Bryson grows up an orphan, bullied by the other kids, constantly berated by his guardian, and ultimately brought into a hostile home when he ages out of the orphanage while he endeavors to complete his schooling as required by his secret patron.

Initial Goal: His initial goal is to get a faculty appointment as a medical professor to the University of Pennsylvania so he can establish himself in society and prove he is worthy to ask for Katerina’s hand in marriage, the daughter of a Philadelphia Textile Baron.

Oppressive Opposition: He is opposed by society at every turn, challenged by Dr. Samuel Watkins, his supervisor, who does not want him to get the faculty appointment. He tries to discourage Bryson by asking him to do all the thankless jobs so he can demean him … sophisticated bullying.

Turning Point Catalyst – The Disturbance: One day, while performing an autopsy for a murder of one of his patients, Margaret Thomas, he pushes through his feelings to do the autopsy when the lights go out. When order is restored, and the lights fixed, his patient is no longer on the table, but has mysteriously disappeared.

Turning Point One – The Dilemma: Bryson recalls the time he healed Mr. Johnson and wonders if something as inexplicable as that happened to his patient. Was Margaret even dead? He has to know the answer to his questions … so endeavors to learn the truth. This pushes him into the world of murder, and criminology.

The New Role: Bryson enters into the Detective Role.

Act 2

The Unfamiliar Situation: Bryson convinces his custodian, Mr. Tom Ballard who is an Inspector for the Philadelphia police force, to take him to the crime scene where his patient was found dead. Bryson brings a visiting professor from Oxford [or this might be substituted with Atterley] who is interested in the new science known as forensics. They determine the there is little doubt that she was dead given the splatter on the wall, which appears to be fresh, and the cursory exam Bryson performed at the autopsy. Bryson keeps this to himself … and does not talk about the fact that she disappeared from the autopsy to the professor or Tom Ballard.

Transitional Goal: Bryson aims to determine how Margaret disappeared; he wants to know the answer to this strange mystery.

Incidental Opposition: Watkins and Ballard both try to discourage him from pursuing the matter given she was a lady of ill repute. He is also opposed and even attacked by Margaret’s pimp, a man who works for Severino.

Turning Point Catalyst – The Reality Check:  When he goes to the brothel where Margaret worked, he is berated, challenged, and eventually taken into a back room and assaulted. He awakens in the alley with a knife sticking out of his chest. 

Turning Point Two – The Commitment: He is able to get home with the help of Atterely, where he recovers miraculously. He marvels that he should be dead and the gift of healing that Ms. Devin called his curse niggles at the recesses of his mind. He knows now that he didn’t just imagine that healing so long ago. There is something different about him and his curse. His recovery provides a false sense of invincibility.

Act 3

The Central Conflict: While caring for a patient, a messenger delivers a black hand invitation. Bryson knows that this is a warning from the gang that likely killed Margaret. He shares the invitation with Tom who tells him he needs to stop his crusade and move on with his life. 

False Goal: Bryson cannot shake the injustice of the Black Hand getting away with murder, and decides he needs to learn more about The Black Hand and their presumed leader, Severino.

Intentional Opposition: Bryson is now on Severino’s radar. Bryson realizes he is being followed by the same people, Severino’s men, and decides to face them head on. One of the men tells him he is as smart as everyone says he is, he should just forget about his patient and go back to being a doctor in his nice little life.

Turning Point Catalyst – The Turn: Bryson learns that his special patient, Elizabeth Winslow, has gone missing. He rushes to Byberry to find her with Atterley.

Turning Point Three – The Moment of Truth: Though he knows he is walking into a trap, he fears what Severino’s men have done to Elizabeth and so he searches each building at Byberry. Although he finds Elizabeth and even saves her from great harm, he cannot save himself and is drugged by his best friend, Atterley, under orders of Severino. Severino orders him to be committed to the asylum just like his old lady. 

Act 4

The Doomed Plan: 
Penultimate Goal: 
Self-Inflicted Opposition: 
Turning Point Catalyst – The Low Point: The funeral of Tom Ballard
Turning Point Four – The Newfound Resolve: 

Act 5

The Long Shot: 
Ultimate Goal: 
Ultimate Opposition: 
Turning Point Catalyst – All is Lost: 
Turning Point Five – The Final Push: 

Act 6

The New Situation: 